# A bit of post-modern C++ refactoring

## Welcome!

Welcome to my first interactive workshop on [tech.io](https://tech.io)!

This playground serves as an interactive environment to people attending this workshop at the Italian C++ Meetup in Modena on June 14.

I'll show you some "must know" features and idioms of **post**-modern C++. I like referring to this era of C++ development with "Post-" prefix because "Modern" was introduced more than 17 years ago with [Alexandrescu's book](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Modern_C%2B%2B_Design).

You'll have the opportunity to put your hands on some code by refactoring a small existing codebase. The exercises are very simple and they are intended to let you play a bit with the code.

### Post-modern C++ programmers are like Bruce Lee

Bruce Lee used to say:

> The best fighter is someone who can adapt in any style

C++ implements this concept very well, because it's independent from the paradigm.

Post-modern C++ programmers should master idioms from different paradigms and styles, and use them conveniently. 

## Playground structure

Everything is self-contained and embedded in this **playground**. Under the hood, this environment is generated by using a [github repo](https://github.com/ilpropheta).

Every section (page) of this playground points to a newer version of the C++ project under the hood. This way you never get behind. 
Basically, I have deployed incremental versions of the example codebase you'll work on and I set up as many executables as I needed, with **CMake**.

In addition, you can build the [full repo](https://github.com/ilpropheta) on your machine and play "offline".

## Tools

This workshop will show you some C++11, C++14 and C++17 features. For this reason it's important to use a suitable compiler. In this playground everything is compiled with **GCC 7.2**.

### Catch

Behind the scenes, this codebase has a few unit tests made with [Catch](https://github.com/catchorg/Catch2). In case a test fails you will se the full output.

## MicroUrl, an url shortener toy project

Your company has just acquired **MicroUrl** a revolutionary url shortner service. Your CIO has great plans for the future of **MicroUrl** but the codebase seems a bit old-fashioned and before digging into Quantum Computing Support and Blockchain protocols he wants you to modernize the code a bit.

# Getting familiar with the environment

This first excercise is just to stretch your hands and let you explore the environment.

## Hands on!

**MicroUrl** is quite old and it gets back plain HTTP urls. Your boss heard that Google Chrome will mark all HTTP sites as 'not secure' starting in July and he asked you to fix such problem.

Change the following function accordingly and make the test pass:

@[Fix MicroUrlService.cpp]({"stubs": ["microurl/src/ver1/MicroUrlService.cpp", "microurl/src/ver1/MicroUrlService.h", "microurl/src/ver1/tests/NiceToMeetYou.cpp"],"command": "sh /project/target/run_test.sh ver1"})